           Why do you choose to talk us about women abused in your family?


 It’s because when they abused the women we have nowhere to go. The rare desk we have are not available and our family are suffering. When we have the opportunity talk about it, we have to it do it, in the name of all women and when do so, we know that one day the younger women will be protect.  


                 Questions 

1.	What domestic violence means to you?

There are many ways to victim domestic violence.  Many friends victim different ways.  In my part, the man I was living with was abusing me.  This is how I understand domestic violence. 


          2.   What happen when you victim domestic violence? 


           3.   What kind of problem you have at home?  
            
        My problem was my husband, we where married as teenagers. We had two children. When He starts working, He notice that I wasn’t his type and I can’t be his wife.  For him, I was there to cook, clean and I was not able to go out. Automatically I went somewhere, for him I went to meet somebody. But it’s not true.  He doesn’t want me to go visit my family. I have to stay home. One day he was not at home and I went to a funeral , when I came back he beats me so bad. I thought I broke my cheekbone, because when I open my mouth I can’t close it back up.  I had to go to the dentist and I visit many more doctors.  My parents took me to the capitol for more doctor ‘s visit, I was able to close my mouth correctly after two months. 
 

4.  How many more time you’ve been abused?  Once or twice?


Well, I’ve been abuse several times. He beat s me all the time. I was afraid to tell my parents about it.  Today I decide to talk about it. Lately, he bits me harder. The last fight we had was so hard I thought I would die.  

5. Who’s your abuser you? How close you are to that person?   

Like I said, he was my husband.


6. After you being abuse, what other problems you had?  Can you explain?

Yes, like I told you, after being abused, I stay in house till the next day. I had no job at that time and he won’t give us money for food. He was very aggressive, he said bad words and yell at the kids. Sometimes we can go without food for two days. During this time I have to stay calm, I can’t say anything and ask the kids to do the same. He won’t let me tell my parents about it and that make my kids suffered too. 


7. How do you feel about it?  

I regretted that I was in this relationship, but I was tying to save my personality and who my children will be. Now I have to talk about, so others may know what I’ve been through.   


8.  How do the people react when they see your husband treats like that? 


Yes, on the last fight my neighbor save from his hand. The neighbor took my hand and I ran to me her house. She called my parents and they come and take me. We went to the court with him, the judge make him swear he won’t do that again, if he does, he’ll go to prison.  After all that drama we broke up. 


9.  Is your abused depends to your environment point of view?   

We are living in a machismo society. Men thought they can do anything to their wife without fear. Many women are depends on men economically and they used that to abused them.


-	Why are you keeping it a secret to your environment?  Why you never talk about it?  

I’m a married woman and we were married to be happy.  When you are being abused you’re afraid to let people know about it, even your children.  I hide it because my environment will see it wrong. 

-	Did your environment think you’re responsible of what happen?  

Well, when you are walking in the street people are talking behind your back about what happen, they don’t even know that your are being abused. 

10.  Which legal body and which group of people are available to help you? 

 Well, if we have a problem we went to the court. The last time he beats me, my parent took me to the court for help and judge gave him a caution.  
I don’t know we have legal place to go for women abused. 

11.  Are men being abused too?  

I don’t know, I don’t hear anything about it. 


12.  What should be done to stop women abused?  

I think they must stop women abused, because many women suffered from it.   
 Some suffered silently, some of them agreed to talk about. Some of them won’t let anyone know about it and died from it. The government need to put many legal bodies throughout the country to fight for women’s rights.  We need refuge places, where we can go at night when things are hard. 

Do you want to add another important thing? 


Yes, I want the government to take a look at the women’s suffered and do something about it. Men need to respect women’s right. Open more public desks, we need more jobs for women to be more independent. 








Thank –you for your participation, we know you took your time to answer all of these questions. We hope that women’s situation change. 


I hope so too, it’s my dream.  Thank- you for you time too, I hope we have more people like you to come talk to us, because most of us are suffering silently. 

